OSRIc Open license:
Terms used herein are as defi ned in the OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
promulgated by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. Open Game Content may only be
Used under and in terms of the Open Game License.
Subject to the other terms of this license, you may do the following:
1. Distribute this document for free or for profi t, provided that no change or
addition is made other than adding your name as publisher if the product is
distributed in print, other than by print on demand.
2. Refer in your own products to the name of this document, and indicate
compatibility with the OSRIC system.
3. Produce content that is derivative of the “Licensed IP” material in this docu-
ment, provided that your product is not a complete game.
4. Include quotations from the rules set forth in the OSRIC system, provided
that such quotes do not individually exceed 100 words or collectively comprise
more than 10% of your product.
5. Identify parts of your Product Identity as “OSRIC™ Open Content” that may
be used by other OSRIC publishers, but only OSRIC publishers, as if it were
Open Game Content. Note that Open Game Content may not be limited to
OSRIC publishers, only Product Identity.
6. Identify parts of your Product Identity as “OSRIC™ Reference Content,”
in which case other publishers may refer to the OSRIC Reference Content
provided that they identify the source of the reference (your work) and note
on the cover of their product that your product is required in order to use
their product.
7. If a publisher fails to identify OSRIC Open or Reference content, that content
will be considered Product Identity, assuming that it is valid Product Identity
under the OGL .
If you do any of the foregoing, you must:
1. Comply with the terms of the Wizards of the Coast (“WOTC”) Open Game
License with respect to any use of Open Game Content.
2. Not violate or infringe upon any trademark of WOTC (moreover, note that
the OGL currently prohibits any indication of compatibility with a trademark
without written permission).
3. Include the following text prominently on the cover or cover page of your
product:
This product uses the OSRIC™ System (Old School System Reference and
Index Compilation™). The OSRIC system text may be found at http://www.
knights-n-knaves.com/osric. The OSRIC text is copyright of Stuart Marshall.
“OSRIC” and “Old School Reference and Index Compilation,” are trademarks
of Matthew Finch and Stuart Marshall and may be used only in accordance with
the OSRIC license. This product is not affi liated with Wizards of the Coast.
Complimentary copies of OSRIC material need not be sent to the authors,
but it would be nice.
“Licensed IP” means: all of the material herein, with the exception of the art-
work, trademarks, and title.
Under no circumstance should this license be construed to violate the terms
of the Open Game License, and any term that violates the Open Game License
is to be construed as closely as possible to the original intent within the terms
of the Open Game License.
Open Game lIcenSe Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright
2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Defi nitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark own-
ers who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material”
means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (in-
cluding into other computer languages), potation, modifi cation, correction,
addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other
form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c)
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly
display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the
game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines
to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an
enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identifi ed
as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered
by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright
law, but specifi cally excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade
dress; artefacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic ele-
ments, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions,
likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and
other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters,
spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or su-
pernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other
trademark or registered trademark clearly identifi ed as Product identity by the
owner of the Product Identity, and which specifi cally excludes the Open Game
Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs
that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associ-
ated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g)
“Use”,”Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify,
translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h)
“You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a
notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in
terms of this License. You must affi x such a notice to any Open Game Content
that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your
acceptance of the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License,
the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive
license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original
material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are
Your original creation and/or You have suffi cient rights to grant the rights
conveyed by this License.
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of
any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You
must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including
as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another,
independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product
Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any
Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent
Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The
use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product
Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest
in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identifi cation: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly in-
dicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game
Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated
versions of this License. You may use any authorised version of this License
to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed
under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every
copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written
permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not
Use any Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply
with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becom-
ing aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this
License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable,
such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.;
Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, based on original ma-
terial by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
OSRIC copyright 2006-08 by Stuart Marshall, adapting material prepared by
Matthew J. Finch, based on the System Reference Document, inspired by the
works of E. Gary Gygax, Dave Arneson, and many others.
The following material was adapted back to the 1e system from the Tome of
Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc: Aerial Servant from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc authors Scott
Greene and Clark Peterson based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Al-
Mi’Raj from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc
authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson based on original material by Roger
Musson, Amphisbaena from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax,
Axe Beak from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games,
Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Aurumvorax
from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author
Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Babbler from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc authors Scott
Greene and Clark Peterson based on original material by Jeremy Goodwin and
Ian McDowell, Bat, Mobat from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson based on
original material by E. Gary Gygax, Beetle, Giant Boring from the Tome of Horrors
copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on origi-
nal material by E. Gary Gygax, Beetle, Death Watch from the Tome of Horrors
copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Clark
Peterson based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Beetle Giant Rhinoceros
from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author
Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Blindheim from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott
Greene based on original material by Roger Musson, Brownie from the Tome
of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene
based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Carbuncle from the Tome of Horrors
copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on origi-
nal material by Albie Fiore, Caryatid Column from the Tome of Horrors copyright
2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material
by Jean Wells, Caterwaul from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Albie Fiore, Coffer Corpse from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Simon Eaton, Crabman from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Erica Balsey based on original material by
Ian Livingstone, Crypt Thing from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Roger Musson, Dakon from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by Ian McDowell,
Dark Creeper from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games,
Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by Rik Shepard, Dark Stalker
from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author
Scott Greene based on original material by Simon Muth, Demon, Alu- from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott
Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Demon, Cambion from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott
Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Disenchanter from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott
Greene based on original material by Roger Musson, Dracolisk from the Tome
of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene
based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Executioner’s Hood from the Tome
of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene
based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Eye of the Deep from the Tome of
Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based
on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Flind from the Tome of Horrors copyright
2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material
by E. Gary Gygax, Fly, Giant from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Gargoyle from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson based on original material
by E. Gary Gygax, Gorgimera from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Groaning Spirit from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson based on
original material by E. Gary Gygax, Jackalwere from the Tome of Horrors copy-
right 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original
material by E. Gary Gygax, Leech, Giant from the Tome of Horrors copyright
2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material
by E. Gary Gygax, Leprechaun from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Lurker Above from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Mongrelman from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Necrophidius from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Simon Tilbrook, Nereid from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Nilbog from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by Roger Musson,
Phantom from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc
author Scott Greene based on original material by Harold Johnson and Tom
Moldvay, Piercer from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson based on original material
by E. Gary Gygax, Poltergeist from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Lew Pulsipher, Quickling from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Rot Grub from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson based on original material
by E. Gary Gygax, Shedu from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Skeleton Warrior from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Nigel Morgan, Slithering Tracker from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Slug, Giant from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Sprite from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax,
Squealer from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc
author Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Stunjelly from
the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott
Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Tick, Giant from the Tome
of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene
based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Trapper from the Tome of Horrors
copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on origi-
nal material be E. Gary Gygax, Troll, Ice from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002
by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Russell Cole, Troll, Giant Two Headed from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002
by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by
Oliver Charles McDonald, Vilstrak from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by
Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax, Volt from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by Jonathon Jones,
Vulchling from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games,
Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Yellow
Musk Creeper from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer
Games, Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by Albie Fiore, Yellow
Musk Zombie from the Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games,
Inc author Scott Greene based on original material by Albie Fiore, Yeti from the
Tome of Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Green
based on original material by E. Gary Gygax, Zombie, Juju from the Tome of
Horrors copyright 2002 by Necromancer Games, Inc author Scott Greene based
on original material by E. Gary Gygax.
OSRIC Chapter I copyright 2006-08 by Stuart Marshall. OSRIC Chapter II
copyright 2006-08 by Stuart Marshall. OSRIC Chapter III copyright 2006-
08 by Stuart Marshall, Trent Foster, James Boney and Vincent Frugé. OSRIC
Chapter IV copyright 2006-08 by Stuart Marshall, Trent Foster, James Boney and
Vincent Frugé. OSRIC Chapter V copyright 2007-08 by Stuart Marshall, Chris
Hopkins, James Boney, Robert Ross, Jeremy Goehring, Mike Davison, Daniel
Proctor, B. Scot Hoover, Chris Cain, Bill Silvey, Floyd Canaday, Vincent Frugé
and Matthew James Stanham. OSRIC Chapter VI copyright 2007-08 by Stuart
Marshall, Daniel Proctor and Vincent Frugé . OSRIC appendices copyright
2006-08 by Stuart Marshall and James D. Kramer.
end of license
Designation of Product Identity and Open Game Content:
The terms “OSRIC,” “OSRIC,” and “O.S.R.I.C.” are Product Identity and trade-
marks; all artwork and formatting is Product Identity. The Variable Experience
Point Rule on p.118 is Product Identity. Aside from the previous two sentences,
Chapters I, II and III of this work are Open Game Content. Chapters IV, V and
VI are Product Identity to the extent permitted under the OGL and to the ex-
tent such material is subject to copyright, except for any text language derived
from the SRD or the Tome of Horrors, which is Open Game Content.